# `Build()`

New propositions are built using the `Spec.Build()` method.
This method is overloaded and takes one of the following types of arguments:
* `Func<TModel, bool>` - a predicate that returns a boolean value.
* `Func<TModel, BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` - a predicate that returns a `BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` instance.
* `SpecBase<TModel,TMetadata>` - a proposition that has already been built.
* `Func<SpecBase<TModel, TMetadata>>` - a function that returns a proposition.

All of these overloads can be used to create a new proposition with varying levels of expressiveness.

### From a predicate function

`.Build<TModel>(Func<TModel, bool> predicate)`

```csharp
Spec.Build((int n) => n % 2 == 0) 
    .Create("is even"); 
```

Building using a predicate function is the canonical way of creating a proposition.
Propositions built from these generally serve as the foundations to more complex propositions.

### From the result of a proposition

`.Build<TModel, TMetadata>(Func<TModel, BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>> predicate)`

```csharp
Spec.Build((int n) => new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(n))
    .Create("is even (better)");
```

This is semantically the same as the previous example, but uses a `BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` to encapsulate the
result of the proposition, instead of a raw `bool`.
This would be typically generated by an evaluation of another predicate, but instantiating your own result object is 
also possible.

### From an existing proposition

`.Build<TModel, TMetadata>(SpecBase<TModel,TMetadata> proposition)`

```csharp
Spec.Build(new IsEvenProposition())
    .Create("is even (better)");
```
This is used to derive a proposition directly from another proposition.  It is commonly used to change the
assertions or metadata to a different value or type, as well as to compose new propositions as a one-line expression.

### From a proposition factory

`.Build<TModel, TMetadata>(Func<SpecBase<TModel, TMetadata>> factory)`

```csharp
Spec.Build(() => new IsEvenProposition())
    .Create("is even (better)");
```

This is used to create a proposition from a factory function.
The function is immediately invoked and the result is used to create the proposition.
This doesn't add any new capabilities, but is instead to assist with encapsuling 

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between">
    <a href="./Spec.html">&lt; Previous</a>
    <a href="./As.html">Next &gt;</a>
</div>
