# Definitions

## Propositions
In logic, a proposition is a declarative statement that can be either _true_ or _false_.

For example:

* _Password must contain at least one number_
* _Data processing is complete_
* _User access is restricted to read-only_
* _The product is in stock_
* _Payment is successful_

These can also be combined to form more complex expressions, such as:
> _the product is in stock_ **&** _the payment is successful_

It is important to bear in mind that propositions are unproven statements and that they need to be _evaluated_ 
before they can assert facts.

## Assertions
When we know whether a proposition is satisfied (or not), its true or false state can be expressed as an assertion

* _the product is in stock_
* _the payment is unsuccessful_

When satisfied, an assertion statement will often look the same as its propositional statement.
The main difference between the two is that an assertion is a _statement of fact_, whereas a proposition is a
_statement of possibility_.

## Metadata
In the context of Motiv, metadata is additional information that can be attached to a proposition.
It is typically a POCO (Plain Old CLR Object) that can be used to provide more context about the proposition.
When the metadata is a `string` it is processed as an _assertion_ (but not all assertions are derived from metadata).

## Reason
The _reason_ is a human-readable explanation of why a proposition is satisfied or not.  
If there are more than one proposition contributing to the result, the reason will be a serialized composition of 
reasons (whereas the assertions will be a collection of individual strings).

## Spec
Specifications (i.e. `Spec`) are the building blocks of propositions in Motiv.  They are the nodes in the logical 
syntax tree that represent the propositions.  They model both the propositions and the operations performed on them.

| [Back - Introduction](./1.Introduction.md) | [Next - Minimal Proposition](./3.MinimalProposition.md) |
|:------------------------------------------:|:-------------------------------------------------------:| 
