# Boolean Results

`BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` instances are returned by the `IsSatisfiedBy()` method.
They capture the boolean result of propositions, as well as marshaling the `Reason`, `Metadata` and `Assertions` 
values from the underlying proposition results to their parent.

```csharp
var isEven =
    Spec.Build((int n) => new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(n))
        .Create("is even");
```

The `BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` can be accessed using the `WhenTrue()` and `WhenFalse()` methods, and turned into 
new assertions or metadata.

```csharp
Spec.Build((int n) => new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(n))
    .WhenTrue((model, result) => $"{model} is true because {result.Reason}")
    .WhenFalse((model, result) => $"{model} is false because {result.Reason}")
    .Create("is even");
```

## Operations

Like the propositions that create them, `BooleanResultBase<TMetadata>` instances can also be logically combined
using the same first-order operations.

### And
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2) & new IsPositiveProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2);
```
The `&` operator (or `And()` method) is used to logically combine two boolean results into a single boolean result
that is only satisfied when both of the original boolean results are satisfied.
It will always evaluate both operands, regardless of the result of the left operand.

### AndAlso
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2).AndAlso(new IsPositiveProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2));
```
The `AndAlso` method is used to combine two boolean results into a single boolean result that is only satisfied 
when both of the original boolean results are satisfied.
It will only evaluate the right operand if the left operand is satisfied (in other words, it is _short-circuited_).

### Or
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2) | new IsPositiveProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2);
```
The `|` operator (or `Or()` method) is used to combine two boolean results into a single boolean results that is 
satisfied when either 
of the original boolean results is satisfied.
It will always evaluate both operands, regardless of the result of the left operand.

### OrElse
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2).OrElse(new IsPositiveProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2));
```
The `OrElse` method is used to combine two boolean results into a single boolean result that is satisfied when 
either of the original boolean results are satisfied.
It will only evaluate the right operand if the left operand is not satisfied (in other words, it is _short-circuited_).

### Not
```csharp
!new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2);
```
The `!` operator (or `Not()` method) is used to negate a boolean results, so that it is satisfied when the original 
boolean result is not satisfied. 

### Xor
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2) ^ new IsPositiveProposition().IsSatisfiedBy(2);
```
The `^` operator (or `Xor()` method) is used to combine two boolean results into a single boolean result that is
satisfied when either of the original boolean results is satisfied, but not both.
It will always evaluate both operands, regardless of the result of the left operand.

<div style="display: flex; justify-content: space-between;">
  <a href="./5.MetadataProposition.md">Back - Metadata Propositions</a>
  <a href="./7.Compositions.md">Next - Compositions</a>
</div>
