# Operations


## First order operations

First order operations are those that make determinations about individual models, and not about sets of models.

### And `&`
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition() & new IsPositiveProposition();
```
The `&` operator (or `And()` method) is used to logically combine two propositions into a single proposition
that is only satisfied when both of the original propositions are satisfied.

Both operands are always evaluated, regardless of the result of the left operand.

(see also: [The logical And operator](../And/And.md))

### AndAlso `&&`
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().AndAlso(new IsPositiveProposition());
```
The `AndAlso` method is used to combine two propositions into a single proposition that is only satisfied
when both of the original propositions are satisfied.
It will only evaluate the right operand if the left operand is satisfied (in other words, it is _short-circuited_).

(see also: [The conditional And operator](../AndAlso/AndAlso.md))

### Or `|`
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition() | new IsPositiveProposition();
```
The `|` operator (or `Or()` method) is used to combine two propositions into a single proposition that is
satisfied when either
of the original propositions is satisfied.

Both operands are always evaluated, regardless of the result of the left operand.

(see also: [The logical Or operator](../Or/Or.md))

### OrElse `||`
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition().OrElse(new IsPositiveProposition());
```
The `OrElse` method is used to combine two propositions into a single proposition that is satisfied when
either of the original propositions are satisfied.
It will only evaluate the right operand if the left operand is not satisfied (in other words, it is _short-circuited_).

(see also: [The conditional Or operator](../OrElse/OrElse.md))

### Not `!`
```csharp
!new IsEvenProposition();
```
The `!` operator (or `Not()` method) is used to negate a propositions, so that it is satisfied when the original
proposition is not satisfied.

(see also: [The logical Not operator](../Not/Not.md))

### Xor `^`
```csharp
new IsEvenProposition() ^ new IsPositiveProposition();
```
The `^` operator (or `XOr()` method) is used to combine two propositions into a single proposition that is
satisfied when either of the original propositions is satisfied, but not both.
It will always evaluate both operands, regardless of the result of the left operand.

(see also: [The logical XOr operator](../XOr/XOr.md))

| [Back - Operations](./7.Compositions.md) |
|:----------------------------------------:|